{"sourcedb": "PubMed","sourceid": "9489764","text":"The manipulated mesenchymal stem cells in regenerated skeletal tissues. Ample experimental examples have been accumulated during the last 3 decades indicating the ability of exogenous sources of cultured cells to serve as implants accelerating cartilage regeneration in defects of articular surfaces. In some cases, the repair tissues form complete spatial reconstruction of the defect. In other cases, either the spatial reconstruction is incomplete or the quality of the reparative tissue is inadequate. A delayed pace of endochondral ossification in the deep zones of the subchondral region of the defects, or ossification above the tide mark, within the superficial cartilaginous articular regions have been noted. Therefore, even in this promising approach of biological resurfacing procedure results are not certain, and further investigative research efforts are required. In the current study, a comparison of implantations of various cultured cells of four different sources were tested in an avian system. The reparative tissue outcomes are divided into three grades: full regeneration success, partial success, and failure of regeneration according to qualitative histological parameters and quantitative observation of the gross specimen. Defects that failed to regenerate a completely filled lesion were found to contain cells carrying the preskeletal-precartilaginous characteristic marker of FGFR3. The findings based on the above parameters suggest that autogeneic, chondrocytic-enriched bone marrow derived mesenchymal cells are superior to other cell sources for articular cartilage regeneration. Grafting of defects with these cells results in a 100% success rate. Allogeneic limb bud-derived mesenchymal cells and allogeneic embryonal chondrocytes have both reached a success of 75% of completely filled defects. Allogeneic chondrocytic-enriched bone marrow-derived mesenchymal cells yielded a 31% success rate. Untreated defects completely failed to heal. In successfully healed defects no cells of the reparative tissue carry the FGFR3 marker 3 months postimplantation. In partially healed defects, FGFR3 positive staining is present in fibrous cells at the invaginated surface. These latest findings may suggest some kind of proliferation failure in such cases.","denotations":[{"obj":"Gene:2261","span":{"begin":1407,"end":1412}},{"obj":"Gene:2261","span":{"begin":2052,"end":2057}},{"obj":"Gene:2261","span":{"begin":2121,"end":2126}}]}
